import Attribution from './Attribution'

# Episode 1: Why Do We Need Enemies?

<img src="/images/books/enemies.jpg" alt="Podcast Art for Enemies: from War to Wisdom" style={{ width: '300px' }} />
<Attribution />


### What is an enemy? 

In a sense we all know what an enemy is, especially emotionally, but in
a fundamental way an enemy defines the boundary of our own identity. In order
for me to collect a sense of identity, I have to have something that is
different from myself. The idea of enemy begins with otherness. It begins with
the feeling of here is where I stop and you begin.

At root it is not a malevolent impulse. It is more of a discrimination impulse.

The way this apparatus forms in human beings we have a long dependent childhood
where we group up in a relational setting of a family. A family also has its
stories and identifications: "we are this kind of people and those other people
are another kind of people." By the time we reach maturity, around 25 years, we
have already have an elaborate sense of who I am, what I like, what my values
are, and what my ideals are. All this requires somebody else who sees things
differently. 

On one hand this process of sorting out self and other is a natural process,
not inherently malevolent, not something that is designed to be a weapon, but
it is easily associated with the feeling that we need to protect ourselves,
particularly in a moment of emotional threat. As adults we are very sensitive
to emotional threat. We are sensitive to feelings that we are less than, that
we are other, that we are unknown. When we are with someone who feels that way
we can immediately identify them as the enemy: your are the one who causes
pain, your are the one who has failed, you are the one who is aggressive. You
are the perpetrator.

There is an arc from the normal development of all of us in terms of selfing
and othering. The differentiation of self and other eventually gets associated
with are tendency to feel that the bad guy is the other. So when there is
a feeling of threat or anxiety we have a very difficult time stepping back from
blaming the other. 

When we are in the middle of these emotions where we feel threat or anxiety,
how do we learn to step back?
