import HtmlHeader from '../../components/HtmlHeader'

<HtmlHeader title="Notes on Sapiens: The Tree of Knowledge" />

# The Tree of Knowledge

From around 70,000 years ago to about 30,000 years ago Sapiens started
invent amazing tools such as boats, oil lamps, bows and arrows, and
needles for sewing warm clothing. The first artwork comes from this
period.

In this period Sapiens underwent a cognitive revolution. Harari calls it
the Tree of Knowledge mutation that rewired the brain. It included the
development of language for communication. All animals including insects
can communicate. 

One theory about what makes human language unique is Sapiens' language
however is distinct in its flexibility. We can connect a limited number of
sounds to make limitless meaning.

Another suggests our need to communicate about other humans was the most
important thing to communicate. "It's much more important to know who in
their band hates whom, who is sleeping with whom, who is honest and who is
a cheat." Gossip was the driver (and still is). 

Perhaps both theories are valid. Truly unique ability about our language
is the ability to communicate about things that don't exist at all.
Legends, myths and religion appear with the cognitive revolution. These
imaginary fictions allow us to act collectively, flexibly and in large
numbers. 

## The Legend of Peugeot 

The maximum number of people bound by gossip and personal relationships is
about 150 individuals. Beyond that, you need a group fiction or a common
myth. 

Modern institutions function by collectively believing in a myth just as
a "primitive tribe" did.

The legend of Peugeot provides a good example.

The hood ornament of the Peugeot automobile is a lion head on a humanoid
body much like the ancient Stadel lion-man which was one of the oldest
pieces of artwork found dated 32,000 years old. Peugeot started as a small
family business near the Stadel Cave and now employs 200,000 people with
revenues of around 55 billion Euros. 

It what sense does Peugeot exist? Their vehicles are not the company. The
company owns factories and office buildings  but these are not the
company. Even if all the employees died in a disaster new employees could
be hired to continue the same work. The company Peugeot has no connection
to the physical world. The company is a fiction.

It's a kind of legal fiction of a particular kind called a limited
liability corporation where the owners have limited accountability the
company is a legal entity independent of its ownership. 

When the company was incorporated by Armand Peugeot in 1896 he had to
perform all the legal rituals needed to incorporate a company. Corporation
is an ironic name for a business as the root word corpus comes from the
Latin word for body which a corporation does not have. Today the company
exists as a story that enables 200,000 employees to work cooperatively.

This kind of fiction or social construct is not a lie. We all believe in
these fictions which exist to us along side the physical world. They have
become more powerful than the physical world itself.
